This week, we're going to deepen our
investigation into how Python can be used
to manipulate, clean, and query data
by looking at the pandas data toolkit.
Pandas was created by
Wes McKinney in 2008.
It is an open source project
under a permissive license.
As an open source project,
it has a strong community,
with more than a 100 software developers
committing code to help make it better.
Now, you should use the tools within
the course to engage with the instructor,
the course assistants, and your peers
in order to get help with pandas.
But I also want to encourage you to go
beyond this, and frankly, you'll probably
have to, and use question and
answering sites such as Stack Overflow.
Stack Overflow is used broadly within
the software development community to post
questions about programming, programming
languages, and programming toolkits.
What's special about Stack Overflow
is that it's heavily curated by
the community.
And the pandas community in particular
uses it as their number one resource for
helping new members.
It's quite possible, if you post
a question to Stack Overflow and
tag it as being pandas and
Python related, that the pandas
developer will respond to your question.
In addition to posting questions,
Stack Overflow is a great
place to see what issues people
are having and how they can be solved.
A second resource you might
want to consider are books.
In 2012, Wes McKinney wrote the definitive
pandas reference book called Python for
Data Analysis, and published by O'Reilly.
And this was updated in
2017 to the second edition.
I consider this the go-to textbook for
the class and
an important resource in
understanding how pandas works.
But I also appreciate the more brief book,
Learning the Pandas Library
by Matt Harrison.
It's not a comprehensive book
on data analysis and statistics.
But if you just want to learn the basics
of pandas and want to do it quickly,
I think it's a well laid out volume.
The field of data science is rapidly
changing, there's new toolkits and
methods being created every day.
It can be tough to stay
on top of all of this.
Marco Rodriguez and
Tim Golden maintain a wonderful blog
aggregator site called Planet Python.
You can visit visit the webpage at
planetpython.org, subscribe with
an RSS reader, or get the latest articles
from the Planet Python Twitter feed.
There are lots of regular Python
data science contributors,
and I highly recommend that you
follow it if you're into RSS feeds.
Similarly, if you're into podcasts,
I like Python Bytes by Michael Kennedy and
Brian Okken.
Their episodes are short and
more Python news related, and
this is a great way to keep up with some
of the activity in the python ecosystem.
All right, here's my last plug
on how to deepen your learning.
Kyle Polich runs an excellent
podcast called Data Skeptic.
And while it isn't Python-based per se,
it is well produced and
has a wonderful mixture of interviews
with experts in the field,
as well as short educational lessons.
Much of the work he describes is
specific to machine learning methods and
will serve you well
throughout this degree.
With all of this in hand,
let's jump into learning more about the
Python data manipulation toolkit, pandas.